README.md, before:

# rust-vmm-container

**`rustvmm/dev`** is a container with all dependencies used for running
`rust-vmm` integration and performance tests. The container is available on
Docker Hub and has support for `x86_64` and `aarch64` platforms.

For the latest available tag, please check the `rustvmm/dev` builds available
on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/rustvmm/dev/tags).

## Know Issues

For now rust is installed only for the root user.

## Using the Container

The container is currently used for running the integration tests for the
majority of rust-vmm crates.

Example of running cargo build on the kvm-ioctls crate:

```bash
> git clone git@github.com:rust-vmm/kvm-ioctls.git
> cd kvm-ioctls/
> docker run --volume $(pwd):/kvm-ioctls \
         rustvmm/dev:$VERSION \
         /bin/bash -c "cd /kvm-ioctls && cargo build --release"
 Downloading crates ...
  Downloaded libc v0.2.48
  Downloaded kvm-bindings v0.1.1
   Compiling libc v0.2.48
   Compiling kvm-bindings v0.1.1
   Compiling kvm-ioctls v0.0.1 (/kvm-ioctls)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 5.63s
```

## Publishing a New Version

A new container version is published for each PR merged to main that adds
changes to the [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) or the related scripts. Publishing the
container happens automatically through the
[.github/worflows](.github/workflows) and no manual intervention is required.

You can check the progress of a commit being published to Docker Hub by looking
at the GitHub commit history, and clicking on the status check of the relevant
commit.

![alt](img/container_build.png)

### Manual Publish

If for any reason the GitHub workflow is not working and a new container
version was not automatically pushed when merging the Dockerfile changes to
the main branch, you can follow the steps below for a manual publish.

The rust-vmm organization on Docker Hub is free and thus has only 3 members
that are allowed to publish containers:
- [Andreea Florescu](https://github.com/andreeaflorescu)
- [Laura Loghin](https://github.com/lauralt)
- and the rust-vmm bot account

On an `aarch64` platform:

```bash
> cd rust-vmm-dev-container
> ./docker.sh build
> ./docker.sh publish
```

You will need to redo all steps on an `x86_64` platform so the containers are
kept in sync (same package versions on both `x86_64` and `aarch64`).

Now that the tags `v4_x86_64` and `v4_aarch64` are pushed to Docker Hub, we can
go ahead and also create a new version tag that points to these two builds
using
[docker manifest](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/manifest/).

```bash
./docker.sh manifest
```

If it is the first time you are creating a docker manifest, most likely it will
fail with: ```docker manifest is only supported when experimental cli features
are enabled```. Checkout
[this article](https://medium.com/@mauridb/docker-multi-architecture-images-365a44c26be6)
to understand why and how to fix it.

Commit message:

README.md: Add riscv64-related information
Update README.md to inform about the addition of riscv64 rust-vmm-container support.

Signed-off-by: Tan En De <ende.tan@starfivetech.com>

README.md, after:

# rust-vmm-container

**`rustvmm/dev`** is a container with all dependencies used for running
`rust-vmm` integration and performance tests. The container is available on
Docker Hub and has support for `x86_64`, `aarch64`, and `riscv64` platforms.

For the latest available tag, please check the `rustvmm/dev` builds available
on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/rustvmm/dev/tags).

## Know Issues

For now rust is installed only for the root user.

## Using the Container

The container is currently used for running the integration tests for the
majority of rust-vmm crates.

Example of running cargo build on the kvm-ioctls crate:

```bash
> git clone git@github.com:rust-vmm/kvm-ioctls.git
> cd kvm-ioctls/
> docker run --volume $(pwd):/kvm-ioctls \
         rustvmm/dev:$VERSION \
         /bin/bash -c "cd /kvm-ioctls && cargo build --release"
 Downloading crates ...
  Downloaded libc v0.2.48
  Downloaded kvm-bindings v0.1.1
   Compiling libc v0.2.48
   Compiling kvm-bindings v0.1.1
   Compiling kvm-ioctls v0.0.1 (/kvm-ioctls)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 5.63s
```

Examples of running cargo build/test for riscv64 can be found in [riscv64/examples](`riscv64/examples`).

## Publishing a New Version

A new container version is published for each PR merged to main that adds
changes to the [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) or the related scripts. Publishing the
container happens automatically through the
[.github/worflows](.github/workflows) and no manual intervention is required.

You can check the progress of a commit being published to Docker Hub by looking
at the GitHub commit history, and clicking on the status check of the relevant
commit.

![alt](img/container_build.png)

### Manual Publish

If for any reason the GitHub workflow is not working and a new container
version was not automatically pushed when merging the Dockerfile changes to
the main branch, you can follow the steps below for a manual publish.

The rust-vmm organization on Docker Hub is free and thus has only 3 members
that are allowed to publish containers:
- [Andreea Florescu](https://github.com/andreeaflorescu)
- [Laura Loghin](https://github.com/lauralt)
- and the rust-vmm bot account

On an `aarch64` platform:

```bash
> cd rust-vmm-dev-container
> ./docker.sh build
> ./docker.sh publish
```

For `riscv64` platform, `ARCH` needs to be set since its Dockerfile is different:

```bash
> cd rust-vmm-dev-container
> ARCH=riscv64 ./docker.sh build
> ./docker.sh publish
```

You will need to redo all steps on an `x86_64` platform so the containers are
kept in sync (same package versions on both `x86_64` and `aarch64`).

Now that the tags `v4_x86_64` and `v4_aarch64` are pushed to Docker Hub, we can
go ahead and also create a new version tag that points to these two builds
using
[docker manifest](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/manifest/).

```bash
./docker.sh manifest
```

If it is the first time you are creating a docker manifest, most likely it will
fail with: ```docker manifest is only supported when experimental cli features
are enabled```. Checkout
[this article](https://medium.com/@mauridb/docker-multi-architecture-images-365a44c26be6)
to understand why and how to fix it.
